---
layout:     post
title:      "Free"
subtitle:   " \"自由\""
date:       2017-01-28 12:00:00
author:     "罗小布"
header-img: "img/in-post/bourdieu1.jpg"
tags:
    - 对话布尔迪厄
---

Mr. Bourdieu, 

I only discovered your name in Terminale, at which time I was still deeply in a spirit of pure contradiction to everything I did not understand and all authority. So it was a good part of my year that I spent to denigrate you as much as philosophy and dear young professor in charge to make us discover some bases. 

Thus he presented us the documentary "Sociology is a combat sport" that frankly did not convince me of the truth of your work, or at least of the seriousness on which it was based. Still, I put it in context, in my mind of "pure contradiction". Today, although still very young, I have learned from this that I was able to discover through my teacher and you a good producer of documentaries, namely "Pierre Carles", of which I practically saw all the documentaries, Without having understood everything. 

I promise you to take a closer interest in your writings, and as objectively as possible, for a simple "Ah Bourdieu? Yeah it's the ****, "pass me the expression, is no longer enough in our days to hold a conversation. And I will ask you questions later on any question that deserves your insight. 

Thank you in advance.

**Lucas Christmann **


---

I have only two brief suggestions to make. The first is to preserve your taste for protest, for it is in him that you will find the energy indispensable to those who wish to work continuously to disentangle the truth from the false. The second is to control as much as possible your tendency to contradict others by turning against your own thinking the weapons you like to use with regard to the thoughts of others. Good luck!

**Pierre Bourdieu**