---
layout:     post
title:      "Love"
subtitle:   " \"爱\""
date:       2017-01-28 12:00:00
author:     "罗小布"
header-img: "img/in-post/bourdieu1.jpg"
tags:
    - 对话布尔迪厄
---

Some questions ... 

Can love exist for a deterministic sociologist like you? Or is your marriage explained by an encounter of compatible habitus? 

Have you suffered from the success of your theories, used as a "toolbox" by many "homos academicus"? 

What do you think of the documentary film directed by Pierre Carles and devoted to you? 

Yours, 

**Laurence**

---

>"Can love exist for a deterministic sociologist like you?" 

This is a question that perhaps exists only for the twofold assertion that I am a deterministic sociologist, Would act there of a state likely to compromise my faculty of love. If you call determinist the one who undertakes to explain behavior by the chain of causes and effects - by the relational side of things, if you prefer - and which, by the same token, renounces to hold the subject as the creator of His choices, I am willing to consent to speak of deterministic sociology. But it is important to avoid two dangers. The first would be to postulate that this is a partisan step in the quarrel which opposes in a quasi-sacralized manner the supporters of a pure and hard philosophical determinism and the adepts of a free will capable of fertilizing Something that totally escapes any genesis whatsoever. This opposition masks in fact the social stakes above which it affects to situate itself.1 The second would be to reduce determinism to a mechanism and thus to ignore the fact that the habitus is not merely a reservoir Of determinations, but rather the place of dispositions which are formed by exercising themselves. Do I need to say that there is no sociologist other than research and that there is no researcher who does not stop searching? In these intervals, which he loves, marries, and lives, he will do nothing without the illusion of choosing what he does. The semi-lucidity which perhaps confers the mere fact of knowing that the choices of everyday life are subject to a sociological analysis confers no particular quality on these choices: they preserve in any case the faculty of being those of sincerity. 

>"Have you suffered from the success of your theories, used as" toolboxes "by many" homo academicus "?" 

If it is a theory I hold, it is the one that is dedicated to unraveling the relations that Must maintain theory and practice. If it is a practice that has my favors, it is the practice that requires reconsidering theories. And if it is a work that mobilizes me, it is the one who seeks to account for practices that are less ready for a theoretical meaning. It is enough to say, it seems to me, how much I disapprove of a relation to the theories - a fortiori mine - that would be lived in the mode of the "toolbox". The homo academicus can be stigmatized in that it is docile to the determinations of its field and suspect it of yielding to automatisms. But there are also professors who find in the works - mine and others - something to further their teaching and thus give the students additional weapons of elucidation. 

>"What do you think of the documentary film directed by Pierre Carles and devoted to you?" 

I accepted the principle of this film because it seemed to me to be part of my concern for a socio- Analysis of the sociologist. In the same way that it seemed to me important to dedicate my last lesson to the *Collège de France* to an attempt to analyze my own assumptions - my own prejudices - an attempt that would give the keys to a more clairvoyant reading Of my work (more clairvoyante in certain respects than I was to write it), so it seemed useful to me, not of course to narcissistically dwell on my daily life, but to give it to see it To those who question themselves legitimately about a work whose writing conditions remain partly ignored. In my opinion, this film was better made to bring to those who have read the light in a tone, atmosphere, context, than to those who have not read Opportunities to clabauder. As for telling you what I think of the result, it would be tantamount to appropriating to me the meaning of a message which I precisely wanted to be delivered without interpretation; I shall therefore beware of it. 

**Pierre Bourdieu**

(1) The determinists would not want to hold the key to the determinations and therefore arrogate to themselves the right to explain in a rather univocal manner what elucidation would require so many precautions. As for the partisans of the uncreated creative act, of the original thought without origin, they place under the shelter of all investigation what merits only a moral judgment for them. In either case, there is no escape from fatalism except peremptory opinion, which generally has no other purpose than to confirm the presuppositions which it purports to discover or deny.