---
layout:     post
title:      "Algeria2"
subtitle:   " \"阿尔及利亚2\""
date:       2017-01-28 12:00:00
author:     "罗小布"
header-img: "img/in-post/bourdieu1.jpg"
tags:
    - 对话布尔迪厄
---

Hello Pierre, 

You know Algerian sociology well, what do you think it will happen now? 


Will Algeria survive? What would you do if you were President of the Algerian Republic? 

**Napoleno**
 
---

I apologize for the delay. 

For having conducted research in Algeria at the turn of the 1960s, and more particularly on Kabyle society, I do not have the right to claim that I know the sociological reality of Algeria. A fortiori the one of today. 

What characterizes the current image of Algeria is violence. And, of course, it is not appropriate to deny the particularly shocking character of the repeated murders of which we are informed. But the first question is obviously who has an interest in committing these murders and, above all, who has an interest in making it the emblem around which is constructed this image of Algeria that the media convey. One can not help but notice how violence, which is not the fact of the powers in place, is always presented as "gratuitous", "absurd", "mad". It is thus implicitly denied to them to have any meaning whatsoever: they would express only the inhumanity of their authors. The reactions to the events of 11 September are particularly revealing. To hear the American authorities, any attempt to explain beyond the horrified observation would be an unacceptable form of complicity. 

The more a violent act presents the appearances of an absurdity, the more it is necessary to question the conditions of its realization. And whatever may be the effort required by such an attitude, it is necessary to introduce into the interrogation the idea that the author of the act necessarily gives himself reasons for action. It is the only way to hope for an elucidation of causes and, consequently, to see the ways of change. 

I do not know what I would do if I were President of the Republic of Algeria. For I can not be President of the Algerian Republic. If I had become one, I would have been someone else. One of the conditions for the elucidation of the social world is not to occupy a position which demands 
above all to act, as is the position of political "responsible". What I would like to emphasize above all is that the question suggests that the President of the Republic holds - at least potentially - the capacity to profoundly change the future of the country. This, it seems to me, is an illusion conducive to giving credit to political discourse, but unfit to account for the powers and forces which decisively determine the social relations which characterize a society. 

Who can guess what will become of Algeria? Not me, surely. It is to many who suffer from what it is today that it is their task to express what they want and, with the help of intellectuals whose country is not lacking, To shield, from the media and from political "communication", the games and the stakes on which the fulfillment of their aspirations depends.

**Pierre Bourdieu**